  

* * *

SAP NetWeaver AS ABAP Release 752, ©Copyright 2017 SAP AG. All rights reserved.

[ABAP - Keyword Documentation](javascript:call_link\('abenabap.htm'\)) →  [ABAP - Reference](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_reference.htm'\)) →  [Program Layout](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_program_layout.htm'\)) →  [Modularization Statements](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_language_modularization.htm'\)) →  [Source Code Modules](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_language_includes.htm'\)) →  [Include Programs](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_language_include.htm'\)) → 

INCLUDE

[Quick Reference](javascript:call_link\('abapinclude_shortref.htm'\))

Syntax

INCLUDE incl *\[*IF FOUND*\]*.

Addition:

[... IF FOUND](#!ABAP_ONE_ADD@1@)

Effect

The statement INCLUDE includes the [include program](javascript:call_link\('abeninclude_program_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") incl in this position in the source code. In syntax checks and when the program is generated by ABAP Compiler, the statement is replaced by the source code of the include program. The included INCLUDE program must consist of full statements.

If the specified include program does not exist, the syntax of the program is incorrect and cannot be executed. This error situation can be suppressed by specifying the addition IF FOUND.

Programming Guidelines

-   [Use include programs to modularize source code.](javascript:call_link\('abensource_code_modular_guidl.htm'\) "Guideline")
    
-   [Do not use include programs multiple times](javascript:call_link\('abenmultiple_use_include_guidl.htm'\) "Guideline")
    

Notes

-   The statement INCLUDE is the only statement that can be used instead of a [statement that introduces a program](javascript:call_link\('abenprogram_init_statement_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") in the first position of a program. The requirement is that, after the include program is resolved, a statement that introduces a program is located at the beginning of the including program.
    
-   [ABAP Workbench](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_workbench_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") supports the automatic creation of include programs for specific program parts, such as the [top include](javascript:call_link\('abentop_include_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") for global declarative statements. It is advisable to always use the naming conventions proposed by ABAP Workbench. The top include can contain only declarative statements and is respected when individual include programs of a program are compiled.
    
-   In [Repository Browser](javascript:call_link\('abenrepository_browser_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") (a part of Object Navigator in ABAP Workbench), the INCLUDE programs bound by a program are executed as the subnodes of the program.
    

Addition

... IF FOUND

Effect

The addition IF FOUND dictates that the specified [include program](javascript:call_link\('abeninclude_program_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") can be included only if it exists. If the include program does not exist, the INCLUDE statement is ignored and no syntax error occurs here.

Note

If the addition IF FOUND is specified, it is recommended that the including program not be dependent on the source code of the include program. Otherwise, the include program may have correct syntax in systems where it exists but incorrect syntax in other systems.

Example

These lines show the [master program](javascript:call_link\('abenframe_program_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") of the function group ABAP\_DOCU. This function group displays the keyword documentation on [Application Server ABAP](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_personality_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"). It only contains INCLUDE statements that embed the actual source code. labap\_docutop itself is made up of include programs for the individual declarations (global data and class declarations local to the program).

\*&----------------------------------------------------------------\*
\*&  Function Group SAPLABAP\_DOCU
\*&----------------------------------------------------------------\*
  INCLUDE labap\_docutop.               " Global Declarations
  INCLUDE labap\_docue00.               " Load of Program
  INCLUDE labap\_docuuxx.               " Function Modules
  INCLUDE labap\_docuo01.               " PBO Modules
  INCLUDE labap\_docui01.               " PAI Modules
  INCLUDE labap\_docue01.               " Handling of Runtime-Events
  INCLUDE labap\_docup01.               " Class implementations
  INCLUDE labap\_docup02.
  INCLUDE labap\_docup03.
  INCLUDE labap\_docup04.
  INCLUDE labap\_docut99.               " Unit tests