  

* * *

SAP NetWeaver AS ABAP Release 752, ©Copyright 2017 SAP AG. All rights reserved.

[ABAP - Keyword Documentation](javascript:call_link\('abenabap.htm'\)) →  [ABAP - Reference](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_reference.htm'\)) →  [Program Flow Logic](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_flow_logic.htm'\)) →  [Expressions and Functions for Conditions](javascript:call_link\('abenlogical_expr_func.htm'\)) →  [log\_exp - Logical Expressions](javascript:call_link\('abenlogexp.htm'\)) →  [rel\_exp - Comparison Expressions](javascript:call_link\('abenlogexp_comp.htm'\)) →  [rel\_exp - Comparison Rules](javascript:call_link\('abenlogexp_rules.htm'\)) →  [rel\_exp - Comparing Elementary Data Types](javascript:call_link\('abenlogexp_rules_operands.htm'\)) →  [rel\_exp - Comparison Type of Elementary Data Objects](javascript:call_link\('abenlogexp_rules_operands_dobj.htm'\)) → 

rel\_exp - Comparison Type of Date Fields and Time Fields

The following tables show the [comparison types](javascript:call_link\('abencomparison_type_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") for comparisons between date/time types and other data types. If the type of an operand is not the same as the comparison type, it is [converted](javascript:call_link\('abenconversion_elementary.htm'\)) to this type. The [comparison rules for the comparison types](javascript:call_link\('abencomparison_type.htm'\)) determine how the comparison is performed. If no comparison type is specified for a combination, no comparison is possible.

-   [Comparisons with Numeric Data Types](#@@ITOC@@ABENLOGEXP_DATE_TIME_1)

-   [Comparisons with Character-Like Data Types](#@@ITOC@@ABENLOGEXP_DATE_TIME_2)

-   [Comparisons with Byte-Like Data Types](#@@ITOC@@ABENLOGEXP_DATE_TIME_3)

-   [Comparisons with Date/Time Types](#@@ITOC@@ABENLOGEXP_DATE_TIME_4)

Comparisons with Numeric Data Types

\-

d,t

decfloat16, decfloat34

decfloat34

f

f

p

p

int8

int8

i, s, b

i

Example

During the comparisons, the content of the system field sy-datlo is converted to the number of days since 01.01.0001 and compared with the content of days.

DATA(days) = CONV decfloat34( sy-datlo ).
cl\_demo\_input=>request( CHANGING field = days ).
cl\_demo\_output=>display(
  COND #( WHEN days > sy-datlo THEN |{ days } > { sy-datlo }|
          WHEN days < sy-datlo THEN |{ days } < { sy-datlo }|
                               ELSE |{ days } = { sy-datlo }| ) ).

Comparisons with Character-Like Data Types

\-

d,t

string

string

c

c

n

n

Length Adjustments

-   For comparisons between data types c, n, or string on the one hand and d on the other, the longer field is truncated on the right to the length of the shorter field, as long as only blanks are cut off.

-   For comparisons between data types c or n on the one hand and t on the other, the longer field is truncated on the right to the length of the shorter field, as long as only blanks are cut off.

-   Lengths are not adjusted for comparisons between the data type string and the data type t.

Example

Comparison of any text string with the content of the system field sy-datlo.

DATA(text) = CONV string( sy-datlo ).
cl\_demo\_input=>request( CHANGING field = text ).
cl\_demo\_output=>display(
  COND #( WHEN text > sy-datlo THEN |{ text } > { sy-datlo }|
          WHEN text < sy-datlo THEN |{ text } < { sy-datlo }|
                               ELSE |{ text } = { sy-datlo }| ) ).

Comparisons with Byte-Like Data Types

\-

d,t

xstring, x

i

Example

A hexadecimal number that is the result of the conversion of a valid time is equal to this time.

DATA(hex) = CONV xstring( sy-timlo ).
ASSERT hex = sy-timlo.
cl\_demo\_output=>display( |{ sy-timlo } { hex }| ).

Comparisons with Date/Time Types

\-

d

t

d

d

\-

t

\-

t

Example

The time generated by adding the value 86399 to the current time is compared with the current time. It is smaller than the current time.

IF CONV t( sy-timlo + 86399 ) < sy-timlo.
  cl\_demo\_output=>display( |CONV t( sy-timlo + 86399 ) < sy-timlo| ).
ENDIF.