  

* * *

SAP NetWeaver AS ABAP Release 752, ©Copyright 2017 SAP AG. All rights reserved.

[ABAP - Keyword Documentation](javascript:call_link\('abenabap.htm'\)) →  [ABAP - Reference](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_reference.htm'\)) →  [ABAP Syntax](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_syntax.htm'\)) → 

Comments

A comment is an explanation that is added to the source code of a program to help the person reading the program to understand it. Comments are ignored when the program is generated by ABAP Compiler. From a technical perspective, a comment can have any type of content. Two language elements are available for creating comments:

-   The \* character at the start of a program line indicates that the entire line is a comment.

-   The " character, which can be entered at any position in the line, indicates that the remaining content in the line is a comment. This rule does not apply to the " character in [character literals](javascript:call_link\('abencharacter_literal_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") and [pseudo comments](javascript:call_link\('abenpseudo_comment_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry").

These language elements enable create two categories of comment to be created:

-   Comment lines

A comment line contains a comment and nothing else. It can be defined either by the \* character at the start of the program line or by the " character at any point of an otherwise blank program line.

-   End of line comments

An end of line comment is a comment that is added using the " character and that appears after an ABAP statement or part of an ABAP statement.

Programming Guidelines

-   [Arrange comments correctly](javascript:call_link\('abenarrange_guidl.htm'\) "Guideline")
    
-   [Write program comments in English](javascript:call_link\('abenlangu_choice_guidl.htm'\) "Guideline")
    
-   [Make meaningful comments](javascript:call_link\('abencontent_guidl.htm'\) "Guideline")
    
-   [Character set of source code](javascript:call_link\('abencharacter_set_guidl.htm'\) "Guideline")
    

Note

A special category of line end comments are [ABAP Doc comments](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_doc_comment_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") introduced using "!. These comments can be evaluated by an ABAP development environment and support [ABAP Doc](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_doc_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry").

Example

The following example demonstrates how to use comments. Comment lines added with \* are used to structure the program. End of line comments are added after declarations and statements at the end of blocks. All other comments appear before the statements described and are indented accordingly.

\*----------------------------------------------------------\*
\* Class implementations                                    \*
\*----------------------------------------------------------\*
CLASS application IMPLEMENTATION.
  METHOD main.
    DATA: items    TYPE STANDARD TABLE
                   OF REF TO item,     "Item table
          item\_ref LIKE LINE OF items. "Item reference
    DATA: amount       TYPE i, "Amount per item
          total\_amount TYPE i. "Total amount of items
    ...
    "Loop over all items to compute total amount
    LOOP AT items INTO item\_ref.
      IF item\_ref IS BOUND AND
        item\_ref->is\_valid( ) = abap\_true.
        "Compute total amount for valid items
        amount = item\_ref->get\_amount( ).
        ADD amount TO total\_amount.
        ...
      ELSE.
        ...
      ENDIF. "item\_ref IS BOUND AND...
    ENDLOOP.
    ...
  ENDMETHOD. "main
ENDCLASS. "application