  

* * *

SAP NetWeaver AS ABAP Release 752, ©Copyright 2017 SAP AG. All rights reserved.

[ABAP Keyword Documentation](javascript:call_link\('abenabap.htm'\)) →  [ABAP Glossary](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_glossary.htm'\)) → 

Application Server ABAP

Abbreviated as AS ABAP. Variant of the [Application Server](javascript:call_link\('abensap_nw_app_server_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") in [SAP NetWeaver](javascript:call_link\('abensap_netweaver_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") for programming applications in ABAP. It is the successor of [SAP Basis](javascript:call_link\('abensap_basis_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"). Application Server ABAP provides the [ABAP runtime environment](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_runtime_envir_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"). It can be described as a client server system made up of at least three layers of software. These three software layers are the [presentation layer](javascript:call_link\('abenpresentation_layer_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"), [application layer](javascript:call_link\('abenapplication_layer_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"), and [database layer](javascript:call_link\('abendatabase_layer_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"). It also contains communication components such as the [RFC interface](javascript:call_link\('abenrfc_interface_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"), [Internet Communication Manager(ICM)](javascript:call_link\('abeninternet_con_man_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"), and [ABAP Channels](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_channel_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"). AS ABAP guarantees the independence of the ABAP application programs of the hardware, the operating system, and the [database](javascript:call_link\('abendatabase_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"). [ABAP programs](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_program_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") can be executed only in AS ABAP. Each AS ABAP has its own user management system, based on a [user master record](javascript:call_link\('abenuser_master_record_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"). A standalone AS ABAP without application components is the smallest possible [ABAP-based SAP system](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_sap_system_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry").