  

* * *

AS ABAP Release 755, ©Copyright 2020 SAP SE. All rights reserved.

[ABAP - Keyword Documentation](javascript:call_link\('abenabap.htm'\)) →  [ABAP - Programming Language](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_reference.htm'\)) →  [Declarations](javascript:call_link\('abendeclarations.htm'\)) →  [Declaration Statements](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_declarations.htm'\)) →  [Classes and Interfaces (ABAP Objects)](javascript:call_link\('abenclasses_and_interfaces.htm'\)) →  [ABAP Objects - Overview](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_objects_oview.htm'\)) →  [ABAP Objects - Statements in ABAP Objects](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_objects_statements.htm'\)) → 

ABAP Objects - Statements in Class Pools and Interface Pools

Class pools and interface pools are the ABAP programs in the class library. They are defined in the [ABAP Development Tools (ADT)](javascript:call_link\('abenadt_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") or using the [Class Builder](javascript:call_link\('abenclass_builder_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") tool in the [ABAP Workbench](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_workbench_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") and are used as a repository for global classes and interfaces.

-   A program of [program type](javascript:call_link\('abenprogram_type_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") class pool is introduced using the statement [CLASS-POOL](javascript:call_link\('abapclass-pool.htm'\)).

-   A program of [program type](javascript:call_link\('abenprogram_type_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") interface pool is introduced using the statement [INTERFACE-POOL](javascript:call_link\('abapinterface-pool.htm'\)).

These statements are generated by the Class Builder.

Each class pool or interface pool can only contain one global class or a single global interface. These classes or interfaces are declared using the following statements:

-   [CLASS ... PUBLIC. ... ENDCLASS.](javascript:call_link\('abapclass.htm'\))

-   [INTERFACE ... PUBLIC. ... ENDINTERFACE.](javascript:call_link\('abapinterface.htm'\))

The Class Builder uses the properties entered here to generate these statements.

Further Statements in Class Pools

In addition to the declaration of the global class, a class pool can only contain the following statements:

-   Declaration of local data types using the statement [TYPES](javascript:call_link\('abaptypes.htm'\)). These data types can be used by the global class in the private visibility section and in the implementation part.

-   Declaration of local constants using the statement [CONSTANTS](javascript:call_link\('abapconstants.htm'\)). These data types can be used by the global class in the private visibility section and in the implementation part.

-   Declaration of local interfaces using the statements [INTERFACE ... ENDINTERFACE](javascript:call_link\('abapinterface.htm'\)). These can be used by the global class in the private visibility section and in the implementation part.

-   Declaration and implementation of local classes using the statements [CLASS ... ENDCLASS](javascript:call_link\('abapclass.htm'\)). These can be used by the global class in the private visibility section and in the implementation part.

-   Definition of [macros](javascript:call_link\('abenmacro_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") using [DEFINE ...END-OF-DEFINITION](javascript:call_link\('abapdefine.htm'\)). These macros can be used by the global class in the implementation part.

Locally defined types, classes, and interfaces in class pools can be used in the following ways:

-   Only the methods of the global class access the local declarations and implementations in the program. These provide auxiliary methods, for example, which should visible in the interface of the global class. This is the most common scenario. Any changes made to local declarations in the program do not affect the interface of the global class.

-   Apart from the methods of the global class, declarations in the private visibility section of the class also refer to the local declarations in the program. This is a more unusual scenario, in which changes made to the local declarations affect the interface of the global class and [subclasses](javascript:call_link\('abensubclass_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"), and [friends](javascript:call_link\('abenfriend_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") of the global class are recompiled before the next execution.

Further Statements in Interface Pools

In addition to the declaration of the global interface, an interface pool cannot contain its own declarations or implementations. The obsolete statement [TYPE-POOLS](javascript:call_link\('abaptype-pools.htm'\)) is also syntactically possible.

Program Organization

Like any other ABAP program, class and interface pools consist of a global declaration part for declarations and an implementation part for implementations (procedures).

-   The global declaration part of a class pool can therefore contain the declarations of local data types, local interfaces, and local classes, in addition to the actual declaration part of the global class. The implementation part of a class pool can contain the implementation parts of local classes in addition to the implementation part of the global class.

-   The global declaration part of an interface pool can only contain the declaration of the global interface and the implementation part of an interface pool is always empty.

The [ABAP Development Tools (ADT)](javascript:call_link\('abenadt_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") or Class Builder organize the various declarations and implementations of a class or interface pool in [include programs](javascript:call_link\('abeninclude_program_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") whose named are usually not visible to the developer. A function in Class Builder enables the associated include programs to be opened and edited in the ABAP Editor. Include programs exist for:

-   Each visibility section in the declaration part of the global class

-   Each implementation of a method of the global class

-   Local declarations and implementations

-   Test classes in ABAP Unit

To edit the global class, the Class Builder provides a source code-based mode in which all the include programs can be displayed and edited as a single program, in addition to the processing of the individual programs.

Restrictions

Apart from the statements listed above, no statements other than CLASS - ENDCLASS and INTERFACE - ENDINTERFACE are required and therefore not allowed in class pools. The [stricter syntax](javascript:call_link\('abenabap_objects_strict.htm'\)) of ABAP Objects applies to all allowed statements.

The following restrictions are particularly important:

-   No processing blocks except methods
    

Event blocks such as START-OF-SELECTION, AT SELECTION-SCREEN, GET, or AT LINE-SELECTION and dialog modules defined by MODULE - ENDMODULE are not allowed. This means that runtime environment events cannot be processed. ABAP Objects has its own event concept for this. Neither [function modules](javascript:call_link\('abenfunction_module_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") nor [subroutines](javascript:call_link\('abensubroutine_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") cannot be defined using FUNCTION - ENDFUNCTION or FORM - ENDFORM. The methods of a class pool can still call external function modules and subroutines in addition methods.

-   No interface work areas to other programs
    

The statements TABLES and NODES and the addition COMMON PART of the DATA statement are not possible. This means that class and interface pools do not support any global data areas across programs within an [internal session](javascript:call_link\('abeninternal_session_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry").

-   No dedicated [screens](javascript:call_link\('abenscreen_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry")
    

Screen processing as performed in other ABAP programs is not possible. No [dynpros](javascript:call_link\('abendynpro_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") can be defined in a class pool or interface pool. If classic dynpros, including [selection screens](javascript:call_link\('abenselection_screen_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"), are required, it is best to encapsulate them in [function pools](javascript:call_link\('abenfunction_pool_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry"). It is recommended that other suitable output media instead of classic lists are used. For tabular list output, the classes of the SAP List Viewer (ALV), such as CL\_SALV\_TABLE, should be used. For simple text output, wrappers of the browse control such as dynamic documents or text edit control wrappers should be used.

-   No processing of extracts
    

[Extract data sets](javascript:call_link\('abenextract_dataset_glosry.htm'\) "Glossary Entry") cannot be processed in global classes since the defining statement [FIELD-GROUPS](javascript:call_link\('abapfield-groups.htm'\)) is forbidden in class or interface pools.